doc/build.md, before:

# Building Guide

- [Building Guide](#Building-Guide)
  - [Binary Components (Device Servers, Libraries etc)](#Binary-Components-Device-Servers-Libraries-etc)
    - [Dependencies](#Dependencies)
      - [Toolchain Dependencies](#Toolchain-Dependencies)
      - [Build Dependencies](#Build-Dependencies)
    - [Building](#Building)
      - [Building Components Individually](#Building-Components-Individually)
    - [Build Flags](#Build-Flags)
      - [Standard CMake Flags](#Standard-CMake-Flags)
      - [Project Flags](#Project-Flags)
    - [Further Reading](#Further-Reading)
  - [Docker Images For Services](#Docker-Images-For-Services)
    - [Dependencies](#Dependencies-1)
    - [Building](#Building-1)

## Binary Components (Device Servers, Libraries etc)

What follows is guidelines for building the various C++ components as part of the consolidated build system. These may be built separately if desired, and if done this way, ensure the correct version of the various components is built and deployed. The advantage of the build system here is that it downloads the correct version of each component for the given hdbpp-timescale-project release.

The branch/tag for each component is defined in the root CMakeLists.txt file.

### Dependencies

The project has two types of dependencies, those required by the toolchain, and those to do the actual build. Build dependencies are a result of the external project requirements.

#### Toolchain Dependencies

If wishing to build the project, ensure the following dependencies are met:

- CMake 3.11 or higher (The consolidated build uses the latest project fetch features from CMake)
- C++14 compatible compiler (code base in external projects is using c++14)

#### Build Dependencies

Ensure the development version of the dependencies are installed. These are as follows:

- Tango Controls 9 or higher development headers and libraries
- omniORB release 4 or higher development headers and libraries
- libzmq3-dev or libzmq5-dev
- libpq-dev - Postgres C development library

### Building

The build system of the various components uses pkg-config to find some dependencies, for example Tango. If Tango is not installed to a standard location, set PKG_CONFIG_PATH, i.e.

```bash
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/non/standard/tango/install/location
```

Then to build the entire project:

```
mkdir -p build
cd build
cmake ..
make project
```

The pkg-config path can also be set with the cmake argument CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH. This can be set on the command line at configuration time, i.e.:

```
...
cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/non/standard/tango/install/location ..
...
```

The consolidated build system updates the binary output for each component to be the build directly. When building the entire project, all binaries will be under 'build'.

#### Building Components Individually

It is possible to build the various components individually (including externally fetched ones). To see the available targets, use make as follows:

```bash
make help
```

Select a target, example hdbpp_cm, then:

```bash
make hdbpp_cm
```

### Build Flags

The following build flags are available

#### Standard CMake Flags

The following is a list of common useful CMake flags and their use:

| Flag | Setting | Description |
|------|-----|-----|
| CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX | PATH | Standard CMake flag to modify the install prefix. |
| CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH | PATH[S] | Standard CMake flag to add include paths to the search path. |
| CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH | PATH[S] | Standard CMake flag to add paths to the library search path |
| CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE | Debug/Release | Build type to produce |

#### Project Flags

| Flag | Setting | Default | Description |
|------|-----|-----|-----|
| ENABLE_CLANG | ON/OFF | OFF | Clang code static analysis, readability, and cppcore guideline enforcement for any component that supports it|

### Further Reading

Each fetched components repository has a detailed README with additional information not covered here. If you wish to build components individually, see the components README:

- [hdbpp-es](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/hdbpp-es)
- [hdbpp-cm](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/hdbpp-cm)
- [libhdbpp](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/libhdbpp)
- [libhdbpp-timescale](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/libhdbpp-timescale)



## Docker Images For Services

The various python services can all be deployed via Docker images (this is the recommebed method). Each service is self contained in this manner, and has no additional system requirements beyond docker.

### Dependencies

To build the Docker image via the supplied build system: 

- Recent Docker install
- make

### Building

To build the Docker images, simply enter docker subdirectory for the given service and use the Makefile:

```bash
cd docker
make
```

If using a Docker registry then the Makefile can push the image to your registry (remember to update docker commands to include your registry address):

```
export DOCKER_REGISTRY=<your registry here>
make push
```

Commit message:

Update the build doc in case of an error when building libpqxx

doc/build.md, after:

# Building Guide

- [Building Guide](#Building-Guide)
  - [Binary Components (Device Servers, Libraries etc)](#Binary-Components-Device-Servers-Libraries-etc)
    - [Dependencies](#Dependencies)
      - [Toolchain Dependencies](#Toolchain-Dependencies)
      - [Build Dependencies](#Build-Dependencies)
    - [Building](#Building)
      - [Building Components Individually](#Building-Components-Individually)
    - [Build Flags](#Build-Flags)
      - [Standard CMake Flags](#Standard-CMake-Flags)
      - [Project Flags](#Project-Flags)
    - [Further Reading](#Further-Reading)
  - [Docker Images For Services](#Docker-Images-For-Services)
    - [Dependencies](#Dependencies-1)
    - [Building](#Building-1)

## Binary Components (Device Servers, Libraries etc)

What follows is guidelines for building the various C++ components as part of the consolidated build system. These may be built separately if desired, and if done this way, ensure the correct version of the various components is built and deployed. The advantage of the build system here is that it downloads the correct version of each component for the given hdbpp-timescale-project release.

The branch/tag for each component is defined in the root CMakeLists.txt file.

### Dependencies

The project has two types of dependencies, those required by the toolchain, and those to do the actual build. Build dependencies are a result of the external project requirements.

#### Toolchain Dependencies

If wishing to build the project, ensure the following dependencies are met:

- CMake 3.11 or higher (The consolidated build uses the latest project fetch features from CMake)
- C++14 compatible compiler (code base in external projects is using c++14)

#### Build Dependencies

Ensure the development version of the dependencies are installed. These are as follows:

- Tango Controls 9 or higher development headers and libraries
- omniORB release 4 or higher development headers and libraries
- libzmq3-dev or libzmq5-dev
- libpq-dev - Postgres C development library

### Building

The build system of the various components uses pkg-config to find some dependencies, for example Tango. If Tango is not installed to a standard location, set PKG_CONFIG_PATH, i.e.

```bash
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/non/standard/tango/install/location
```

Then to build the entire project:

```
mkdir -p build
cd build
cmake ..
make project
```

In some cases, cmake step can fail to build libpqxx with an error like:

```
Could NOT find PostgreSQL (missing: PostgreSQL_TYPE_INCLUDE_DIR) 
```
This is a bug in the cmake procedure to find postgresql, see(https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/cmake/-/issues/17223), it has been fixed in newer revisions of cmake.
In case it happens, run cmake with setting the PostgreSQL_TYPE_INCLUDE_DIR variable:

```
cmake -DPostgreSQL_TYPE_INCLUDE_DIR=/usr/include/postgresql ..
```

The pkg-config path can also be set with the cmake argument CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH. This can be set on the command line at configuration time, i.e.:

```
...
cmake -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/non/standard/tango/install/location ..
...
```

The consolidated build system updates the binary output for each component to be the build directly. When building the entire project, all binaries will be under 'build'.

#### Building Components Individually

It is possible to build the various components individually (including externally fetched ones). To see the available targets, use make as follows:

```bash
make help
```

Select a target, example hdbpp_cm, then:

```bash
make hdbpp_cm
```

### Build Flags

The following build flags are available

#### Standard CMake Flags

The following is a list of common useful CMake flags and their use:

| Flag | Setting | Description |
|------|-----|-----|
| CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX | PATH | Standard CMake flag to modify the install prefix. |
| CMAKE_INCLUDE_PATH | PATH[S] | Standard CMake flag to add include paths to the search path. |
| CMAKE_LIBRARY_PATH | PATH[S] | Standard CMake flag to add paths to the library search path |
| CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE | Debug/Release | Build type to produce |

#### Project Flags

| Flag | Setting | Default | Description |
|------|-----|-----|-----|
| ENABLE_CLANG | ON/OFF | OFF | Clang code static analysis, readability, and cppcore guideline enforcement for any component that supports it|

### Further Reading

Each fetched components repository has a detailed README with additional information not covered here. If you wish to build components individually, see the components README:

- [hdbpp-es](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/hdbpp-es)
- [hdbpp-cm](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/hdbpp-cm)
- [libhdbpp](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/libhdbpp)
- [libhdbpp-timescale](https://github.com/tango-controls-hdbpp/libhdbpp-timescale)



## Docker Images For Services

The various python services can all be deployed via Docker images (this is the recommebed method). Each service is self contained in this manner, and has no additional system requirements beyond docker.

### Dependencies

To build the Docker image via the supplied build system: 

- Recent Docker install
- make

### Building

To build the Docker images, simply enter docker subdirectory for the given service and use the Makefile:

```bash
cd docker
make
```

If using a Docker registry then the Makefile can push the image to your registry (remember to update docker commands to include your registry address):

```
export DOCKER_REGISTRY=<your registry here>
make push
```
